---
layout: post
title: "Life: A Brief Summary of 2015"
author: "John"
description: 
---
My entire life in 2015. Summarized in this post.

<!--more-->
<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th style="text-align: justify;">Month</th>
<th style="text-align: justify;">What happened?</th>
</tr>
<tr style="text-align: justify;">
<td>January</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li> Started playing the online strategy game <em>grepolis</em> again. Met tons of people there that I now am friends with through skype. I've actually sort of retired at<em> grepolis</em> now, but man do the memories live on.</li>
	<li>Enrolled on classes with different blocks to meet some cool peeps.</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr style="text-align: justify;">
<td>February</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li>The month this blog was created.</li>
	<li>Went to the Philippine Hot Air Balloon Festival.</li>
	<li>Bought a new acoustic guitar.</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr style="text-align: justify;">
<td>March</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li> Joined Mr and Ms APC just for kicks</li>
	<li>Went to the nearby gym near my college (I think twice?) with my block mates.</li>
	<li>I can't remember how many times I went out with my friends from APC on to different places both during and after classes.</li>
	<li>Met tons of models from the College Week and SOMA week.</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr style="text-align: justify;">
<td>April</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li>Palaui Island with my cousins!</li>
	<li>Road trip to Tagaytay city with the boys!</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr style="text-align: justify;">
<td>May</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li> Followed the StrongLifts 5x5 workout plan for the month. Saw massive gains especially at Deadlift and Squats.</li>
	<li>Went to the Tagaytay Sky Ranch for the first time! It was actually one of our destinations for the <a href="https://icenation.wordpress.com/2015/04/14/april-14-2015-tagaytay-roadtrip-bitch/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Tagaytay. Roadtrip.</a> but our budget wasn't enough :(</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr style="text-align: justify;">
<td>June</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li> Start of first semester for SY 2015-2016.</li>
	<li>One of my friends at APC, <em>Eman</em> didn't enroll this semester.</li>
	<li>Dad gave me his car, a Suzuki Jimny which he just bought early this year.</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr style="text-align: justify;">
<td>July</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li>Celebrated my 20th birthday!</li>
	<li>One of my friends, <em>Jim</em> joined the Mr & Ms SOCSIT pageant.</li>
	<li>Got a new phone! Windows Phone again! But this time with a glorious 42MB camera.</li>
	<li>Joined tinder, at first it was just for trolling but for the month of August I took it seriously. Afterwards I just open the app every now and then to check out my new matches. At the time of this writing (<strong>12/29/2015 & 6:43 PM</strong>),  I have 586 matches on tinder so that's effectively almost 100 matches per month. I believe it's more than that actually since I get like 10-20 girls removing me every week lol</li>
	<li>On this month, me and my friends went to tons of places both during and after classes. Thinking about it now, I should've made blog posts for all of it since it was all so fun.</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr style="text-align: justify;">
<td>August</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li>Celebrated PJ's birthday at Colinas Verdes. A country club where we co-own a lot with a relative.</li>
	<li>Got a crew cut!</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr style="text-align: justify;">
<td>September</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li>Start of second semester for SY 2015-2016.  My cousin, <em>JR</em> who was also my schoolmate at APC didn't enroll for this semester. His antics of coming home way late past 1:00 AM and his consistent failures in his studies have finally caught up to him. One of my friends from APC, <em>Mico</em>, didn't enroll for this semester too.</li>
	<li> Started taking Piano lessons.</li>
	<li>Went to Baguio city.</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr style="text-align: justify;">
<td>October</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li> Dad started teaching me how to drive a car</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr style="text-align: justify;">
<td>November</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li>Student Volunteer at the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum! What a great experience :)</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr style="text-align: justify;">
<td>December</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li>Contemplated about <strong>WTF</strong> I'm doing with my life and vowed to change. Created a life plan to achieve my goals.</li>
	<li>I developed the habit of coding everyday. Coded everyday in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, and Java from December 11-29! Should've gone on til new year but my Dad used the laptop for his job. He has his own laptop, but mine's just faster.</li>
	<li>Opened a bank account at BDO on 12/29/2015.</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
