---
layout: post
title: "Life: A Brief Summary of 2016"
author: "John"
description: 
---

<p style="text-align: justify;">My entire life in 2016, summarised in this post.</p>
<!--more-->

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th>Month</th>
<th>What Happened?</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>January</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li>Start of 3rd Term for SY 2015-2016 at APC.</li>
	<li>Did HackerRank's 30 Days of Code</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>February</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li>Read Lord of the Flies for my Reading Challenge for this year. 1/15 done!</li>
	<li>Installed Visual Studio 2015 Community again</li>
	<li>Studied the C programming language</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>March</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li>Created another personal website/blog through github pages.</li>
	<li>Not much was done this month as there were a ton of family outings</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>April</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li>Learned the ASP.NET MVC, used that knowledge to build a website, and deployed it to MS Azure.</li>
	<li></li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>May</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li>Spent a month in mindanao</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>June</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li> Slacked the entire month!</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>July</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li>21st Birthday!</li>
	<li>Went to Bakasyunan</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>August</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li>Nile's crib</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>September</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li>Penafrancia Festival</li>
	<li>Jayvee celebrated his 20th birthday</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>October</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li>Parents flew to Mindanao and I was left all by myself (and occasionally, my uncle) for a week</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>November</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li>Enrolled myself at Coursera's Machine Learning Specialisation Track. Yes, enrolled as in for certification, not just audited it for free.</li>
	<li>Started learning about Artificial Intelligence</li>
	<li>Started studying Java in preparation for the Philippine Programming Challenge</li>
	<li>JR's 21st birthday!</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>December</td>
<td>
<ul>
	<li>Finished Medical Question Answering System</li>
	<li>Learned the fundamentals of android</li>
	<li>Learned enough to do machine learning for THESISP</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<blockquote>
<p style="text-align: left;"><strong>Checklist Update</strong></p>
</blockquote>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th> Goal</th>
<th>Notes</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td> Attend professional events/meetups.</td>
<td>Decided early to to postpone this goal til next year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td> Attend a workshop.</td>
<td>Decided early to to postpone this goal til next year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td> Continue my piano studies.</td>
<td>Set aside due to budget</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Be good enough on the piano that I could play improvised solos from time to time to fill up chord transitions and melody gaps.</td>
<td>Learned enough to play a song in about a half an hour of prep</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Read 15 books this year</td>
<td>I have read a lot of books this year, but out of them, only 6 were read from start to finish:
<ol>
	<li>Lord of the Flies
<em>-- William Golding</em></li>
	<li>The Miracle Morning
--<em>Hal Elrod</em></li>
	<li>10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades
<em>--Thomas Frank</em></li>
	<li>A Year of Little Things
--<em>Caroline Somp</em></li>
	<li>Growth & Productivity: 14 Principles to Help You Achieve More
--<em>Welton Chang</em></li>
	<li>Tribes: We Need You to Lead Us
--<em>Seth Godin</em></li>
</ol>
Get the books here:
Amazon Kindle (Cheap Ebooks)
Book Depository (free shipping)
Power Books (local bookstore)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Have at least 4 blog posts a month (private posts are not counted).</td>
<td> Huge check mark!</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td> Re-learn how to play the acoustic guitar.</td>
<td>Oh yes.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td> Not fail any courses.</td>
<td>Mission accomplished?</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: justify;"> Get a body I can be proud of.</td>
<td style="text-align: justify;">Restrengthened my core and my lower back; continually did functional exercises to combat the <em>"computer guy" </em>body problems.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td> Join a Marathon.</td>
<td>Didn't join one.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align: justify;">Drive my car to a mall and park it on my own.</td>
<td style="text-align: justify;">Unfortunately, since I wasn't using my car often --Because I'm not that good with driving yet-- my dad had it shipped to Mindanao for him to use. I'll be getting it once again by Internship.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Get certified on anything.</td>
<td>Only claimed the money for the certifications, will take them all next year.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Learn and be good on at least one random thing (that is also beneficial for me) this year.</td>
<td>Time Management</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Build a good project portfolio for my career.</td>
<td>Medical Question Answering System</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Be confident, experienced, and knowledgeable enough in a programming language that I could list it as proficient on my resume.</td>
<td>Java</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>End the year with 5 digits after a decimal point on my bank account.</td>
<td style="text-align: justify;">Unfortunately, all those money were spent on buying ebooks and barbell weights.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<blockquote>
<p style="text-align: justify;">The discipline you learn and character you build from setting and achieving a goal can be more valuable than the achievement of the goal itself.</p>
<p style="text-align: justify;">-Bo Bennett</p>
</blockquote>
