---
layout: post
title: "On 2018"
description: Resolutions, goals, and whatnot.
category: articles
tags: [life]
comments: true
---

<h2> Oh My Resolutions! </h2>
<p align="justify">A lot of people look down on resolutions, and I sort of used to do it as well: thinking that if you need a new year's to motivate yourself to pursue a goal, then you're doing it wrong. But apparently, it is a relevant figure in our psyche. Have you ever walked into a room but suddenly wondered why you are there? The science of it is that in our minds, doors exist as the physical manifestation of an event boundary, a new cognitive filter. </p>

<!-- more -->  

<p align="justify">A New Year is like opening a new door to us, it is symbolic, and things like these are powerful motivational factors that we can use to propel ourselves further. With the importance of resolutions defined, let's jump to my 2018 resolutions:</p>

<h2> #1. Less Consumption, More Creation </h2>
<p align="justify">I think that the most important resolution to make, is to become a maker. And there are several instances of how such thing can be done.</p>

<p align="justify">For example, I like to play games from time to time, although nowadays it's become a rare sight to catch my eyes glued to a game. So instead, why not make one? Unity is free and it seems easy to pick up plus there's plenty of documentation and video tutorials online. There's also plenty of online game jams to motivate oneself in developing and showcasing one's creation.</p>

<p align="justify">There's plenty of ideas for games out there and you don't even need to look for a customer for it. Scratch your own back as they say. I like to play and learn about mental arithmetics with the math tricks app on android and it is unfortunate that there's no good app out there in the web that's as minimal and sleek, key factors that made the math tricks app very addicting. So why not build your web solution? Heroku hosting is free. And I could push it into my github portfolio so that I can just pull and play it locally on any computer, even at offices (hehe).</p>

<p align="justify">Apart from games, I spend some of my time on tech blogs as well. How about this time, I'll be the one who does the blogging instead of the reading? It'll help me build my own personal brand and teach myself several things as well. There's that famous quote where it goes "To teach is to learn twice". And that's true, feedback loops are important in learning.</p>

<p align="justify">Applying this notion of being a producer doesn't have to be just on games, programming, or things related to your career. It can also be about your general leisure. One last example of mine is that I like to spend a huge amount of my leisure time reading books. With November as the national novel writing month (NaNoWriMo), perhaps I can spend that month writing my own novel and reconnect with my creative side.</p>

<p align="justify">There's plenty of things that can be done. Maybe you're the person who's into music. Why not learn an instrument and make your own songs? Or perhaps you're the nature-loving kind, so why not plant a tree?</p>

<h2> #2. Choose Progression, Not Stagnation </h2>
<p align="justify">Too many fresh grads settle for a job that leads them nowhere. Some were only forced to take a job just for the sole purpose of having a job. I will be graduating this year so the inevitable will happen -  that I will soon be out in the job market. With this in mind, it is imperative for me to find a job that improves my career. It won't matter then if it will take me a long time, as long as the job that I pick provides me with an extensive future. It's all about progression after all; expand your horizon. </p>
  
<p align="justify">Apart from this, I will look for mentorship as well. In 2017, I learned that people are willing to help you out, as long as you ask them politely. I saw this on the people I randomly e-mailed for advice, the dozens of slack channels I joined, and recently, Twitter.</p>

<p align="justify">Furthermore, one of the chinks in my armour is solving algorithmic questions. It's definitely one of the things that I should prioritise in improving at because an aptitude in algorithmic thinking directly influences the success of my career. Thus, I aim to improve my skill by going through courses on algorithms at <a href="https://www.coursera.org">coursera</a> or <a href="https://www.edx.org">edX</a>, solving algorithmic exercises from books and sites, and participating in competitive programming. Speaking of the latter, I aim to </p>

<h2> #3. Either Gain or Learn </h2>
<p align="justify">This resolution stems from the greatest piece of advice I was given in 2017: "Invest in things that you either gain or learn from." I will never forget that. It was an advice that I got when I was out having a discussion about the upcoming rise of cryptocurrencies. It made me re-assess my options, which eventually led to me investing in the technology. I didn't just put money into it, I made sure to learn about the technology. I learned about an interesting tech, expanded my online network, and then learned a thing or two about trading. In the end, even if that ended up in a financial disaster (it actually went up by 6x), I would have gained and learned more than I thought I would.</p>

<h2> #4. Die a bit more slowly </h2>
<p align="justify">And finally, live a healthier year. Return my body clock and go back to those sweet 8 hour nights, lift heavier weights, eat at least 50 different fruits (an arbitrary number just to get a good challenge), keep safe, smile often, and perhaps I'll get to live to see the next century.</p>
