---
layout: post
title: "DIY Bootcamp Day 19: Getting Started with Java (Data Types and Wrappers) and How to Design Programs (Functions) "
description: 
category: articles
tags: [diy-bootcamp]
comments: true
---

As one mightve noticed on my past 2 posts about webdev, I suck at writing notes for it. HTML/CSS are basic enough but they are verbose, and then later you add JS, and everything is just so wordy and an effort to type out to discuss all the parts. Thus for now, I've decided to not blog about webdev. Perhaps I can blog about projects I'm making, but not really talk about them technically, just do a showcase of them.

Thus in this post, I'll blog about other things I did today.

Some reminders, [here](/articles/2021/04/24/diy-bootcamp-012) I talked about starting the book "Thinking in Java" in May, and [here](/articles/2021/04/28/diy-bootcamp-016.html) I talked about going through the book, How to Design Programs" aiming <u>"to do maybe about 5 exercises per day"</u> starting in May as well.

<!-- more --> 

# Beginning Java

Java is nice, a platform independent language. When you compile a program with java, the compiler turns it into a platform independent code (which is standard) called the java bytecode, which runs on jvm platforms.


A basic program in Java

```java
//this is a comment, this line of code is not executed
//comments are used for readability, notes, and even TODOs

public class Program{ //we declare a class called Program 
	/*
	this is a multi-line comment
	*/
	//main function is where the program execution begins
    public static void main(Strin[]args){ 
	//the next function prints the string "Hello world" to the console
	System.out.println("Hello world");
    }
}
```

Every code in java is part of a class. It's a collection of classes. Unlike in languages like python which every program can just be a collection of python.

<code>public</code> is used so that the method can be accessed everywhere. As it's the main method, it has to be public for JVM to run it.

<code>static</code> methods can be called without creating objects. As it's the main method, it has to be static as JVM just wants to call the main and not create objects of the class to run it.

<code>void</code> is a return type. In Java, main method has to be void unlike in a language like C++ where the return type is usually of type int.

<code>(String[]args)</code> are arguments for the main, which is basically an array of strings. The <u>args</u> is just a name of the array and can be renamed anyway you want, can be rewritten as <code>String[]x</code> if you're lazy. String[]args is used as the parameter for the main function, as we can easily send a set of strings to test the main from our terminal

<code>System.out.println();</code> prints a string to the console. <code>System</code> is a class in the java.lang package, <code>out</code> is an object in that System class and is of type PrintStream and is used to print something to the standard output, and <code>println</code> is a method of the PrintStream class.


Here's a new java program 

```java

public class Program{
    public static void main(String[]args){
		int integerNum = 420;
		String sentence = "java program";
		double doubleNum = 420.69;
		float floatNum = 69.96f;
		System.out.println(integerNum + " " + sentence + " " + doubleNum + " " + floatNum);
    }
}

```

We have to specify the data types (and thus memory) for a variable in languages like Java and C++ for the compiler. These types of languages are called statically typed languages. Different from dynamically typed languages like Python where you dont have to specify the data type and at runtime, is decided how much memory is allocated for variables - this also makes it slower than statically typed languages.

Data types in the above code are: int, String, double, float

There's more data types as well. I'm lazy so just google what those are (or [here](https://www.w3schools.com/java/java_data_types.asp))or run the program I wrote above and play with it. Create a file with the same name as the class, then on terminal enter <code>$ javac Program.java</code> to compile then afterwards, <code>$ java Program</code> to run

Naming convetion for variable names in Java: 

constants: all capital, has a <code>final</code> keyword preceding the data type, and every word is separated by underscores. For example

```java
final double TETHER_TO_DOLLAR = 1.0;
```

Other variables:  lowercase for the first letter, then every subsequent first letter of a word would be uppercased. For example

```java
double priceOfBitcoinTodayInDollars = 57,816.94;
```

Most of these are called primitive data types. String is the exception as it's non-primitive. Non-primitive data types are objects of classes which can be user defined classes or predefined classes. An example of such data type is an Array, so whenever you create one, you create objects. I'm not really sure why String is non-primitive, perhaps it's because as the intro to Strings section of the book "How to Design Program" says (and we talked about in [Day 16](/articles/2021/04/28/diy-bootcamp-016)), a string is just an array of characters (or in the book, called 1String)

we create non-primitive variables with the new keyword which we'll see below

non-primitives when not initialised, have a default value. Meanwhile primitive types dont. Thus you cant just do something like the following

```java
int anInteger;
System.out.println(anInteger);
```

The above, anInteger being a primitive data type,  will throw an error message saying: <code>variable anInteger might not have been initialized</code>

But if we do that to a non-primitive...

```java
class Testing{
	//anInteger is a member (called element) of class Testing
    int anInteger;
}

public class Program {
    public static void main(String[]args){
	//next line  means we create a new object called "a" of the class "Testing" 
        Testing a = new Testing();
        System.out.println(a.anInteger);
    }
}
```

The above outputs the default for a non-primitive integer, which is 0.

Perhaps the biggest difference to know, is that non-primitives are pretty much just references. By reference we mean it just holds a reference to the object's memory location.

Let's take a look at a new program below

```java
class Number{
    int x;
}

public class Program{
    public static void main(String[]args){
        //new keyword is used to create variables of non primitive
        //see my notes on it sourced from thinking in java, below
        Number num = new Number();
        //access members of a non-primitive var with "."
        //we assign to to num.x
        num.x = 420;
        System.out.println(num.x);
        //output: 420
        Number num2 = num;
        System.out.println(num2.x);
        //output: 420
        num.x = 69;
        System.out.println(num2.x + " " + num.x);
        //output: 69 69
    }
}
```

Any data type from the class Number, the one we created, is a non-primitive.

Like for example num2 variable, is a non-primitive and thus holds just reference. Which is why when we "assigned" it to the value of num, once we changed num.x to 69, the value of the other variable that is a reference to it, which is num2, also changed to 69. Thus resulting to the 69 69 output seen above

In java, non-primitives are stored in the heap memory, while the primitives are stored in the stack memory. Thus when we do the <code>Number num;</code> instead of the one above which is <code>Number num = new Number();</code>, a new keyword, no memory is allocated in the heap, we just have a reference variable.

<code>Number num2 = num;</code> then is just making a reference variable to the memory of num.

Now in Java, one can have non-primitives for every primitive data type through wrapper classes like <code>Character</code> is a wrapper class for <code>char</code>. Another is <code>Integer</code> as wrapper class for <code>int</code>.

Accordign to the javadoc

```
java.lang public final class Integer
extends Number
implements Comparable<Integer>

The Integer class wraps a value of the primitive type int in an object. 
An object of type Integer contains a single field whose type is int.
```

It's pretty useful for generics where you pass data types as arguments to create objects of its data types. An example are java collections. We have to use non-primitives for them. We cant just send ints data type for a hashmap like the following

```java
import java.util.HashMap;

public class Test {
    public static void main(String[]args){
        HashMap<int, int> map=new HashMap<>();
    }
}
```

It will give us the following compiler errror 

```
Error:(5, 17) java: unexpected type
  required: reference
  found:    int
Error:(5, 22) java: unexpected type
  required: reference
  found:    int
```

Instead we have to use wrapper classes for int

```java
import java.util.HashMap;

public class Test {
    public static void main(String[]args){
        HashMap<Integer, Integer> map=new HashMap<>();
    }
}
```

Notice that the wrappr non-primitives have an uppercase first letter. It's a naming convention for classes in Java

# Thinking in Java Notes

We refer to the elements in the problem space and their representations in the solution space as “objects.”

An object has state, behavior and identity.

An object can have internal data (which gives it <mark>state</mark>), methods (to produce <mark>behavior</mark>), and each object can be uniquely distinguished from every other object—to put this in a concrete sense, each object has a unique address in memory

Aristotle studied the concept of type. The idea that all objects, while being unique, are also part of a class of objects that have characteristics and behaviors in common.

first OO language: Simula-67, with its fundamental keyword class that introduces a new type into a program.

where the keyword <mark>class</mark> came from: Objects that are identical except for their state during a program’s execution are grouped together into “classes of objects

<mark>Abstract data types</mark> work almost exactly like built-in types: You can create variables of a type (called <mark>objects</mark> or instances in object-oriented parlance) and manipulate those variables (called sending messages or requests; you send a message and the object figures out what to do with it). The members <mark>(elements)</mark> of each class share some commonality

When you see the word “type” think “class” and vice versa. Some people make a distinction, stating that type determines the interface while class is a particular implementation of that interface.

a class describes a set of objects that have identical characteristics (data elements) and behaviors (functionality)

one of the challenges of object-oriented programming is to create a one-to- one mapping between the elements in the problem space and objects in the solution space.

each object can satisfy only certain requests. The requests you can make of an object are defined by its interface,

The interface determines the requests that you can make for a particular object. 

```java
Light lt = new Light();
lt.on();
```

- name of the type/class is Light
- name of this particular Light object is lt
- requests that you can make of a Light object are to turn it on, turn it off, make it brighter, or make it dimmer
- You create a Light object by defining a “reference” (lt) for that object and calling new to request a new object of that type. 
- To send a message to the object, you state <mark>the name of the object and connect it to the message request with a period (dot)</mark>.

one of the best ways to think about objects is as “service providers.” Your program itself will provide services to the user, and it will accomplish this by using the services offered by other objects. 

<u>a reasonable way to decompose a problem into a set of objects.</u>

Think in terms of "What services would those objects provide, and what objects would they need to fulfill their obligations?" If you keep doing this, you will eventually reach a point where you can say either, “That object seems simple enough to sit down and write” or “I’m sure that object must exist already.” 

<mark>High cohesion</mark> is a fundamental quality of software design. It means that the various aspects of a software component (such as an object, although this could also apply to a method or a library of objects) “fit together” well. 


# How to Design Programs - Functions

THe last exercise was the following

> Exercise 10. Now relax, eat, sleep, and then tackle the next chapter

What a great book lol. Anyhow, let's start plowing through the book. As I said, the goal is to do 5 coding exercises a day from How to Design Programs. Well at least until things get hard or too repetitive to be worth the time. But for now, it seems to be something that can be easily done for the moment.

Now, we're discussing functions.

Functions and programs are basically the same although with some differences (such as a program may not consume all of its data at once). The point of functions is that we can use it many times with different input.

Defining functions with Racket is easy, explained somewhere [here](/articles/2021/04/27/diy-bootcamp-015.html)

Here is an example:

```racket
(define (add-two-numbers x y)
	(+ x y))
```

The above is a a function that takes 2 parameters/arguments (or the things that a function consumes). Since this function has 2 parameters, we call it a <u>binary function</u>. 

The <u>function body</u> determines the output, which in this case is <code>(+ x y)</code> or the output of adding the 2 parameters together.

The <u>function header</u> is <code>(add-two-numbers x y)</code>. The variables that follow the function name are just placeholders for pieces of data. Note that variables are not the data itself, but just simply placeholders or those that represent data.

So how do we use a function?

In the blog post I linked, <u>function application</u> for the sample code was done like this

```racket
(add-two-numbers 4 5) 
```

We just call the function name, then supplied the function with 2 arguments to consume, separated by space.

exercise 11: Define a function that consumes two numbers, x and y, and that computes the distance of point (x,y) to the origin

```racket
(define (point-origin-calc x y)
  (sqrt (+ (* x x)
           (* y y))))
```

exercise 12: Define the function cvolume, which accepts the length of a side of an equilateral cube and computes its volume. If you have time, consider defining csurface, too.

```racket
(define (cvolume length)
  (* length length length))

(define (csurface length)
  (* 6 length length))
```

exercise 13: Define the function string-first, which extracts the first 1String from a non-empty string.

```racket
(define (string-first s)
  (string-ith s 0))
```

exercise 14: Define the function string-last, which extracts the last 1String from a non-empty string

```racket
(define (string-last s)
  (string-ith s (- (string-length s) 1)))
```

exercise 15: Define ==>. The function consumes two Boolean values, call them sunny and friday. Its answer is #true if sunny is false or friday is true. Note Logicians call this Boolean operation implication, and they use the notation sunny =ą friday for this purpose.

```racket
(define (==> sunny friday)
  (or (not sunny) friday))
```

exercise 16: Define the function image-area, which counts the num- ber of pixels in a given image.

```racket
(require 2htdp/image)

(define (image-area img)
  (* (image-height img)
     (image-width img)))
```

exercise 17: Define the function image-classify, which consumes an image and conditionally produces "tall" if the image is taller than wide, "wide" if it is wider than tall, or "square" if its width and height are the same. 

```racket
(require 2htdp/image)


(define (image-classify img)
  (if (= (image-width img) (image-height img)) "square"
      (if (< (image-width img) (image-height img)) "tall" "wide")))
```

exercise 18: Define the function string-join, which consumes two strings and appends them with "_" in between.

```racket
(define (string-join s1 s2)
  (string-append s1 "_" s2))
```

exercise 19: Define the function string-insert, which consumes a string str plus a number i and inserts "_" at the ith position of str. Assume i is a number between 0 and the length of the given string (inclusive).

```racket
(define (string-insert str i)
  (string-append (substring str 0 i)
                 "_"
                 (substring str i (string-length str))))
```

exercise 20: Define the function string-delete, which consumes a string plus a number i and deletes the ith position from str. Assume i is a number between 0 (inclusive) and the length of the given string (exclusive).

```racket
(define (string-delete str i)
  ;;note that substring parameter is "string" starting-indexA end-index
  ;; if there is no end index given, then it is assumed that we'll
  ;; get the substring from the starting index given til the end
  (string-append (substring str 0 i)  (substring str (+ i 1))))
```

Anyhow that's it. Just did some project euler problems on the side with Java.

To end the post, as usual, here's a pic of my doggo from today's walk
