---
layout: post
title: "My Goals for 2021: Relearning How to Code, Write More, and Enjoy Life"
description: Some stuff I'm looking forward to
category: articles
tags: [life]
comments: true
---


<p align="justify">Let's make this quick, here are my goals for this year.</p>

<!-- more -->

<ul>
	<li><big><strong><u><big>Blog about at least 2 technical articles on THIS blog</big></u></strong>: I started this blog originally as a technical blog, but what happened is that I left to blog my technical articles to my ither blogs instead, particular the one on my blogspot/blogger instead. Since I've made that blogspot private now, I'm thinking of using this blog instead to create some posts worthy of reading (or learn to write posts that are worth a read).</big></li>
	<br>
	<li><big><strong><u><big>Write at least one in-depth post in THIS blog at least once a month, and make it lengthy</big></u></strong>: lengthy just like this blost post. The post could be about anything. The objective is to be more reflective and to improve my writing skills. </big></li>
	<br>
	<li><big><strong><u><big>Finish How to Design Programs</big></u></strong>: time for me to get back to writing code and what better way than to tackle a book that intersects CS and software development.</big></li>
	<br>
	<li><big><strong><u><big>Continue going through Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs</big></u></strong>: this is my current github repo on my new github account, <a href="https://felleisen.org/matthias/teaching.html">github.com/johnamata/sicp</a>. My last commit was on Jun 16, 2020. I still have unpushed code though, will push them later. Anyhow, I'm not looking to finish this book as I would want to focus instead on How to Design Programs (HtDP). I believe that HtDP is a much better way to start CS than SICP and especially that doing HtDP will prep me for the authors' other courses, particularly: <a href="https://felleisen.org/matthias/teaching.html">	
	Matthias Felleisen's courses @Northeastern Uni</a>, <a href="https://cs.brown.edu/~sk/Work/Teaching/">Shriram Krishnamurthi's Courses @Brown Uni</a>, and <a href="https://www.cs.utah.edu/~mflatt/courses.html">Matthew Flatt's courses @Uni of Utah</a>, </big></li>
	<br>
	<li><big><strong><u><big>Find more avenues to earn income</big></u></strong>: gonna be hard, but I guess a good way to start is by dedicating 30 minutes a day thinking and planning about how one can make more money.</big></li>
	<br>
	<li><big><strong><u><big>Get a software engineering/programming job</big></u></strong>: let's restart the career and find a job I'd really like. </big></li>
	<br>
	<li><big><strong><u><big>Have some projects on my new github at <a href="#">github.com/johnamata</a></big></u></strong>: until December 28, 2020, it originally had the username <a href="#">bradp1tt</a> from back when I created it on December 30, 2019 for my new year's resolution for 2020 to track my improvements in programming. It's a throwaway github account of mine, but I've met a lot of friends with that account thanks to emailing and discord chatting, talking about code and projects. So from a throwaway github account, I think we can start turning it into a more serious, professional account, and changed the username to my name.</big></li>
	<br>
	<li><big><strong><u><big>Learn Rust, C, and Go</big></u></strong>: why those 3? Because there's so many great projects written on those languages that I am interested in looking at.</big></li>
	<br>
	<li><big><strong><u><big>Decide if whether I should pursue gradschool or not</big></u></strong>: grad school is for exploring deep into another topic and for researching. I'm still not sure what I should research on. Currently I'm looking into databases and blockchain/security (particularly I think papers like these is worth exploring: <a href="https://sergio.bz/docs/typechain-2020.pdf">Short Paper: Blockcheck the Typechain</a>). Initially I thought of machine learning but having studied some of it, it feels too much of a trial and error "blackbox style programming" while  waiting hours (and even days depending on the size of the dataset) to train and perform cross validation for hyperparameters. I don't think it's for me.</big></li>
	<br>
	<li><big><strong><u><big>Learn machine learning and data science</big></u></strong>: in the previous bullet point, I mentioned how I dont find machine learning interesting to do grad school work on. Nonetheless, I still feel it's worth at least 100 hours digging into. It's the easiest field to do academic research on (specifically most applied ML and data science), just look at how the bulk of CS papers produced by students at almost every college is some ML algorithm or a survey/comparison of the results of many algorithms applied to a task. So I guess if I really run out of ideas for grad school research, I can always fall back to this one.</big></li>
	<br>
	<li><big><strong><u><big>Get good at algorithms, at least to a fundamental level for interviews</big></u></strong>: mostly this is for coding interviews. Algorithmic knowledge beyond the basics (which one can learn in a week) is pretty much useless for most software engineering and even in most areas of computer science, so I dont want to stray too deep and grind stuff like leetcode and hackerrank 2+ hours a day.</big></li>
	<br>
	<li><big><strong><u><big>Start contributing to an open source project</big></u></strong>: I'm thinking of popular projects in Go, particularly <a href="https://github.com/istio/istio">istio</a> and <a href="https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach">cockroachDB</a>. I'm not sure yet how to approach them and dont have the time for it at the moment. I'm targeting mid-2021 to start beginning my exploration of the codebases.</big></li>
        <br>
        <li><big><strong><u><big>Learn maths</big></u></strong>: preferably from the ground up to see what gaps I missed. I'm looking at downloading Prof Norman Wildberger's math lectures, and going through 2 books, namely Daniel Velleman's <a href="https://www.amazon.com/How-Prove-Structured-Approach-2nd/dp/0521675995">How to Prove It</a> and Serge Lang's <a href="https://www.amazon.com/Basic-Mathematics-Serge-Lang/dp/0387967877">Basics Mathematics</a> as the primary resources for this. Perhaps add Khan Academy as well for supplementary work - the problem though is it requires internet access and I prefer studying without the internet. I'm doing this to prep in case I do decide to get into grad school.</big></li>
	<br>
	<li><big><strong><u><big>Find a new hobby, preferably something sporty</big></u></strong>: I'm thinking of doing martial arts, or get into running or biking. I'm really not sure, perhaps I can do something like get into cooking - I got inspired to cook lately from watching the movie, <a href="https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1135503/">Julie and Julia</a>.</big></li>
	<br>
	<li><big><strong><u><big>Get a better body</big></u></strong>: time to hit the weights and do pullups every (other) morning!</big></li>
	<br>
	<li><big><strong><u><big>Go into more activities with my family and those close to me</big></u></strong>: it has only began hitting me the fact that Mum and Dad have just hit their 50s. I've read a Tim Urban blog post lately, specifically <a href="https://waitbutwhy.com/2015/12/the-tail-end.html">The Tail End</a>, and this particular excerpt is what got me:</big></li>	
	<blockquote>
	<p>Relationships.</p>
	<br>
	<p>I’ve been thinking about my parents, who are in their mid-60s. During my first 18 years, I spent some time with my parents during at least 90% of my days. But since heading off to college and then later moving out of Boston, I’ve probably seen them an average of only five times a year each, for an average of maybe two days each time. 10 days a year. About 3% of the days I spent with them each year of my childhood.</p>
	<br>
	<p>Being in their mid-60s, let’s continue to be super optimistic and say I’m one of the incredibly lucky people to have both parents alive into my 60s. That would give us about 30 more years of coexistence. If the ten days a year thing holds, that’s 300 days left to hang with mom and dad. Less time than I spent with them in any one of my 18 childhood years.</p>
	<br>
	<p>When you look at that reality, you realize that despite not being at the end of your life, you may very well be nearing the end of your time with some of the most important people in your life. If I lay out the total days I’ll ever spend with each of my parents—assuming I’m as lucky as can be—this becomes starkly clear:</p>
	<br>
	<p><u><strong>It turns out that when I graduated from high school, I had already used up 93% of my in-person parent time. I’m now enjoying the last 5% of that time. We’re in the tail end.</strong></u></p>
	<br>
	<p>It’s a similar story with my two sisters. After living in a house with them for 10 and 13 years respectively, I now live across the country from both of them and spend maybe 15 days with each of them a year. Hopefully, that leaves us with about 15% of our total hangout time left.</p>
	<br>
	<p>The same often goes for old friends. In high school, I sat around playing hearts with the same four guys about five days a week. In four years, we probably racked up 700 group hangouts. Now, scattered around the country with totally different lives and schedules, the five of us are in the same room at the same time probably 10 days each decade. The group is in its final 7%.</p>
	</blockquote>
	<p>Tim is putting things into perspective with the average life expectancy of a human being. In the Philippines, the life expectancy is about 70 and if we based on that, mum and Dad have about 20 years left (surely hoping they have more). I'm thinking of leaving the country around my 30s, perhaps permanently, so the amount of time I'll be spending with my mum and dad greatly diminishes. It's the same in others as well, from my siblings to  my new pet dog, who just turned 1 year old last December (googling the life of expectancy, small dogs seem to have 15-16 years). Even if I dont move away, what if something else has to take up my time, such as if I were to get married and thus have to have my time spent minding my own family? It's time to start cherishing these moments more. </p>
</ul>
<p>So here's to 2021: I hope COVID19 gets curbed, some vaccine or some superfood or vitamin supplement gets discovered that puts it away so we'll get to have more opportunities to make memories with people.</p>

<p>lezgooo</p>
