---
layout: post
title: "Math Foundations 001 - What is a Number"
description: Prof Norman J Wildberger's Math Foundations (A) Lecture 1
category: math
tags: [wildberger]
comments: true
---

<p align="justify">In a blog post (<a href="../articles/2021/01/02/goals-2021">here</a>) this year I wrote about my goals for 2021, and one of that was 
to learn maths again, preferably to start from scratch. I chose to go through Professor Norman J Wildberger's Math Foundations series. 
He gets some flak from others for his views on his mathematics, specifically being a finitist. 
But those things, finiteness and infinity, are so abstract and impractical in real life that it doesn't really matter to me. 
What mattered to me was upon seeing a few random videos from his channel on YouTube, he seems to teach mathematics clearly in an intuitive nature. 
<u><strong>The point of this blog series</strong></u>, is for myself to have an avenue to review his lectures as well 
as so that next time I do not need to waste minutes watching his lectures again if I am in need for a quick review. 
In some blog posts, I'll be putting the words he say in verbatim, in some, I'll put pictures/screenshots when needed, and in some, 
I'll be explaining it in my own words so as I can better remember it. </p>

<!-- more -->  

<p align="justify">So, let's get started.</p>

The starting point in math, an empty space, nothing:

<br>

Now, we introduce, something, which is we illustrate as:

<p>|</p>

We call it one. Now, we introduce adding one to itself:

<p>| |</p>

One and One, now we call them, two. We call it a successor, which is represented by an S.

<p>S(| |) = | | |</p>

<p>That means, that the successor of | | is | | |</p>

We can continue to iterate and add one:

<p>| | | | |</p>

One, One, One, One, and One, of which we call four. A string of ones. We’ll discuss Hindu Arabic System later. For now, we’re sticking to natural numbers.
We can represent natural number with n or m. Formally, we represent the set of all natural numbers, with an N, although in the past it is represented with J.

<p>n = m <=> This means that the |s in n can be paired up with |s in m like the following, each stroke has a partner:</p>

<p>n | | |</p>

<p>m | | |</p>

n < m <=> This means n comes before m in the sequence of numbers
