---
layout: post
title: "Math Foundations 006 - Hindu Arabic Number System"
description: Prof Norman J Wildberger's Math Foundations (A) Lecture 6
category: math
tags: [wildberger]
comments: true
---

<p>The greatest single discovery of mathematics.</p>
<p>So far from the previous lessons, our numbers have been made of a string of ones, such as below it represents the number 6.</p>

<!-- more -->  

<p>| | | | | |
<p>There have been other number systems, a popular example is the roman system. Where:</p>
<p>10 is represented by X</p>
<p>100 is C</p>
<p>1000 is M</p>
<p>We list bigger denominations first such as MMCCCCIIIII</p>
<p>Any ten symbols of any kind are replaced by a bigger symbol, such as  you can’t do ten hundreds to represent 1000, like xxxxxxxxxx. You should do c.</p>
<p>The Hindu Arabic number is now the modern number system that we know of and adopted: 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9, and also introduced the form of zero 0, which revolutionized the way for placeholding and thus, along with counting the number of units from each side starting from the right, like say for example MMCCCCIIIII converted to hindu Arabic is 2405.</p>
<p>We start with IIIII, the one to the right, and place 5</p>
<p>We count the number of tens, from MMCCCCIIIII, of which there are zero, do now we add zero to 5 and get 05</p>
<p>We then count the number of hundreds from MMCCCCIIIII, of which there are 4 c which represent a hundred, and thus add 4 and get 405.</p>
<p>We look at number of thousands, see 2 Ms, and finally we get 2405.</p>
<p>One of the biggest introductions of the hindu Arabic, is the power of ten. Where 10^2 is a hundred or 100. A thousand becomes 10^3. Furthermore, we can rewrite numbers as powers of ten, like for example 327:</p>
<p>327 = (3x 100) + (2×10) + (7×1)</p>
<p>These all allowed us to handle large numbers effectively, and allowed us to extend to decimals.</p>
