---
layout: post
title: "Math Foundations 004 - Subtraction and Division"
description: Prof Norman J Wildberger's Math Foundations (A) Lecture 4
category: math
tags: [wildberger]
comments: true
---

<p>So far in Prof Wildberger's series, we have discussed addition and multiplication. We can already use these 2 to explore a few more properties in numbers. In congruence with other post today, number theory, let’s discuss a few things here.</p>

<!-- more -->  
<p>k&nbsp;x&nbsp;m&nbsp;=&nbsp;n<p>Here, we introduce factors.&nbsp;k&nbsp;and&nbsp;m&nbsp;are factors of&nbsp;n, of which because they are multiples of&nbsp;n.</p><p>The&nbsp;prime number. Continuing about our tiny talk with factors, if a number’s multiple are only 1 and n, then it is a prime number. The only exception is that 1 is not a prime.</p><p>Composite numbers&nbsp;are what we call numbers, that aren’t a prime number.</p></p><p>Jumping into subtraction and division. Perhaps the best way to describe these operations, is that they are the inverse operations to addition and multiplication.</p>

<p>Let’s first focus on&nbsp;subtraction, <u>the inverse operation of addition.</u></p>

<p>If&nbsp;k + m = n&nbsp;&lt;=&gt;&nbsp;k = n – m</p><p>We take m’s | to get k’s |s</p><p>To illustrate;<p>Let k be 2 or | |</p><p>Let m be 3 or | | |</p><p>Let n be 5 or | | | | |</p><p>k + m = n<p>| | + | | | = | | | | |</p></p><p>k = n – m<p>we take m’s and we get the value that is k from the addition operation</p><p>| | | | | – | | | = | |</p></p></p><p>Lws of Subtraction</p><p>n – (m + k) = (n – m) – k</p><p>n + (m – k) = (n + m) – k</p><p>n – (m – k) = (n – m) + k<p>Likely the trickiest one. So let us illustrate.<p>| | | | | – (| | | | – |) = | |</p><p>(| | | | | – | | | |) + | = | |</p></p></p><p>distributive law<p>n x (m – k) = n x m – n x k</p><p>(n – m) x k = n x k – m x k</p></p><p>Take note that these operations, addition and subtraction, are binary or takes two at a time</p><p>Notice, that subtraction, unlike addition,&nbsp;is not associative.</p><p>Jumping to division, where&nbsp;division&nbsp;is an inverse operation of multiplication denoted mostly by /</p><p>k x m = n &lt;=&gt; k = n / m<p>| | x | | | = | | | | | |<p>2 groups of 3</p></p><p>inverting the multiplication, we ask how many groups of that number<p>| | = | | | | | | / | | |</p></p><p>One thing to note, since we are using natural or counting numbers here, as we use strokes ( | ), n / m is only defined if m is a factor of n. Later we move on from natural numbers.</p></p><p>Laws of division</p><p>(k / m) + (n / m) = (k + n) / m</p><p>(n x k) / (m x k) = n / m</p><p>(n / m) x (k / l) = (n x k) / (m x l)</p><p>(n / m) / (k / l) = (n x l) / (m x k)<p>Remember this as it’s usually the most complicated one for people</p></p>
