---
layout: post
title: "DIY Bootcamp Day 20: I Need to Build Something"
description: 
category: articles
tags: [diy-bootcamp]
comments: true
---

Today as I was walking my dog, I saw a group of kids heading towards our trail, talking nonchalanty to each other as they ride their mountainbikes. They stopped for a bit just in front of us thinking of the next thing that they should do. It reminded me back of when I was a kid, we'd often sometimes stop by to take a quick break and think of what game we should play next.

<!-- more -->

Should we play hide and seek? Tag?

Those were the times. But kids are different these days, those types of games aren't played anymore. 

And it showed: the kids in front me talked about playing <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minecraft">minecraft</a> next. But what surprised me was they didn't mean playing the video game itself. They talked about playing minecraft in the real world. They began planning the rules for their game, collecting certain types and shapes of rocks are equivalent to something in the minecraft world, rules for crafting new items, and tagging real world objects (ex. cars, some certain types of people and dogs) as their zombie enemies that they shouldnt go near with or they're "dead." I dont know minecraft so their jargons just flew over my head. But it was impressive how they exercised their imagination. They're natural makers.

In 2017 when I was still a student, I read a post in Hacker News titled [When You Are Depressed, Make Something ](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=13365430) and the title hit me. It pulled me out of my slacking at university and made me go back to working on my undergrad thesis. Later I read that post again during my [8-month internship](/articles/2017/12/12/my-internship-willis-towers-watson.html) and made me decide to take up an initiative project.

<u>I need to build something, fast. Do it end to end. </u>

# Java

Some more Java studies today. I plan to get good enough in Java to use it in algorithm coding contests (as I think it's a good way to prep for coding interviews) as well as to get good in actual software engineering and programming by eventually contributing to open source projects I like such as [this one](https://github.com/trinodb/trino)

Here we continue from our java studies yesterday with primitives and wrappers

Type conversion

We can automatically convert primitive data types in java either through <u>Implicit Conversion</u>. An implicit is where you can assign a variable of a smaller data type to that of a larger data type, like for example an <code>int</code> can be automatically converted to a <code>long</code> or <code>float</code> or <code>double</code>.

```java
int x = 1;
double y = x; //implicit
```

this is the ranking, from lowest to largest data type 

- byte

- short

- char

- int

- long

- float

- double

For converting a larger data type to that of a smaller data type, we have to perform <u>Explicit conversion</u> so we wont lose information during the conversion we have to state explicitly type out the type inside a set of parenthesis to tell the compiler the type we will convert that variable to. In the following, we tell the compiler that we'll have to convert a <code>double</code> y to type <code>int</code>.

```java
int x = 1;
double y = x; //implicit
int z = (int) y; //explicit
```

Now suppose we do the following, what happens?

```java
int num1 = 420;
Integer num2 = num1;
int num3 = num2;
```

In Java, we dont need some type conversion when we assign a primitive type (int) variable to a non-primitive (Integer) type variable. What happened here is called <a href="https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/data/autoboxing.html">Autoboxing</a>, where the primitive type variable "automatically" becomes its corresponding type of non-primitive, or vice versa.

Reading input

Reading Input with Scanner

```java

```

I've been looking at solutions for competition programming problems in Java and plenty of them are using Bufferedreader, as it's faster they said.

Reading Input with BufferedReader

```java
//importing these 3 are essential for buffered reader
import java.io.BufferedReader;
import java.io.IOException; //exception for readLine
import java.io.InputStreamReader;
//or we could just import the whole java.io package 
//import.java.io.*:

public class Test {
    public static void main(String[]args) throws IOException {
        BufferedReader br = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(System.in));
        //reads a user's input
        String input = br.readLine();
    }
}
```

<code>System.in</code> takes an input stream of bytes from the standard input device, which is the keyboard. <code>InputStreamReader</code> converts the streams into characters. <code>BufferedReader</code> then reads these converted characters.

More info at [https://www.cs.princeton.edu/courses/archive/spr96/cs333/java/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/input.html](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/courses/archive/spr96/cs333/java/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/input.html)

> System.in implements the standard input stream. The standard input stream is a C library concept that has been assimilated into the Java language. Simply put, a stream is a flowing buffer of characters; the standard input stream is a stream that reads characters from the keyboard. The standard input stream is a convenient place for an old-fashioned text-based application to get input from the user.


we use <code>.readLine()</code> to read input. but as [Oracle's java docs says (I quoted below)](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/io/BufferedReader.html#readLine()), we have to handle this exception by either importing java.io.IOException and declare the method to throw an exception with <code>throws IOExceptio</code>. Or we could have a try-catch for it.

> public String readLine() throws IOException
>
>Reads a line of text. A line is considered to be terminated by any one of a line feed ('\n'), a carriage return ('\r'), a carriage return followed immediately by a line feed, or by reaching the end-of-file (EOF).
>
>Returns:
>
>A String containing the contents of the line, not including any line-termination characters, or null if the end of the stream has been reached without reading any characters
>
>Throws:
>
>IOException - If an I/O error occurs


# Thinking in Java Notes

Continuing from last time, here's some of my notes from my readings of Thinking in Java by Bruce Eckel. I still havent gotten to the part where there are coding exercises yet. I have enough practice with kattis and project euler for that, which I what spend the bulk of my days on.

In a good object-oriented design, each object does one thing well, but doesn’t try to do too much. 


Treating objects as service providers is a great simplifying tool. This is useful not only during the design process, but also when someone else is trying to understand your code or reuse an object. 

If all the members of a class are available to everyone, then the client programmer can do anything with that class and there’s no way to enforce rules.

1st reason for access control is to keep client programmers’ hands off portions they shouldn’t touch


2nd reason for access control is to allow the library designer to change the internal workings of the class without worrying about how it will affect the client programmer. If the interface and implementation are clearly separated and protected, you can accomplish this easily.

Java uses three explicit keywords/<mark>access modifiers</mark> to set the boundaries in a class: 

1. public - the following element is available to everyone. 

2. private - no one can access that element except you, the creator of the type, inside methods of that type

3. protected - acts like private, with the exception that an inheriting class has access to protected members, but not private members.

# How to Design Programs

I continue my daily grind of doing 5 exercises from How to Design Programs (HtDP)

Why? Because plenty of people said it's a great book to learn programming from.

I rarely read hacker news these days but here's a recent great review of HtDP there 

[sourcelink](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=25301248)


> Came here to mention HTDP.
>
>Here's an anecdote. I have two friends who decided to take advantage of some COVID downtime to learn to code. I suggested they start by doing some HTDP, and they did. Now one is doing a bootcamp and the other is building his own apps. Both are doing Javascript, React, Ruby, a bunch of popular stuff.
>
>I've interviewed and hired dozens of junior devs in my career, many of whom had already been on the job for a couple years. Most had only gone through a bootcamp. My two friends are far surpassing what any of those folks were capable of. They are able to understand these modern tools on a deeper level, not just copy-pasting or memorizing parts of an API.
>
>I recommend it to anyone who wants to learn to code. Once you know fundamentally how to design functions, you can learn any of the trending technologies that might snag you a job. And you'll probably end up with higher quality, higher output, fewer bugs than your peers.

5 exercises/day is also a small target, but it adds up in the long run

Anyhow, no "coding" exercises were done today. The 6 exercises I did were pretty much just "Can you figure out the result of this code? try it out then type it into DrRacket to check if you're right!"

How about you, can you figure it out?

```racket
(define (ff a)
	(* 10 a))
(ff (ff 1))
(+ (ff 1) (ff 1))

(define (distance-to-origin x y)
	(sqrt (+ (sqr x) (sqr y))))
(distance-to-origin 3 4)
  
  
(define (string-first s)
	(substring s 0 1))

(define (==> x y)
    (or (not x) y))
	
(define (image-classify img)
	(cond
		[(>= (image-height img) (image-width img)) "tall"]
		[(= (image-height img) (image-width img)) "square"]
		[(<= (image-height img) (image-width img)) "wide"]))
```

I love this book.

# Ruby

The bulk of my day was spent thinking about learning Ruby. One thing led to another, and I decided to learn Ruby. It came out from I asking people for advice on how to be a high performing programmer. A friend from Amazon told me that Stripe engineers are the smartest he's worked with. I looked up software engineer job ads at Stripe to get an idea of what kind of people get there, and I learned that they like to use Ruby and Go. 

Then I read some posts at hacker news about online courses  that they found was worth the price, and from there I read a few reviews about [destroy all software](https://www.destroyallsoftware.com/screencasts). I then read the creator's tweet saying most of the content there are in Ruby. Googling more about Ruby, and I found great educational resources using it like James Coglan's [Building Git](https://shop.jcoglan.com/building-git/). One book that's also recommended often to learn professional web development the right way is Michael Hartl's [Ruby on Rails Tutorial](https://www.railstutorial.org/). I thought that from a pedagogical perspective, learning Ruby would be great. I then looked at jobs nearby that use Ruby on Rails and I found companies like [mashup garage](https://www.mashupgarage.com/), then I saw others. And all of them have products that I want to work on.

So then my mind was really decided. I got all the resources I could find, and started learning Ruby.

I just did some basics of ruby today. As I said, the bulk of my time was spent on researching what to learn. Analyis panalyis yet again.

Here's a piece of code in ruby, I just put my notes in a comment, explaining almost each line of uncommented code

```ruby
# this is a comment

###################
# basic shit
###################

x = 1 # assigns 1 to variable x
y = 2 

puts() #prints a newline and the result of the expression inside the parentheses, which in this case is nothing
puts(x + y) #prints the sum of 1 and 2
puts('john patrick amata'.length) #prints the number of characters of the entered string, which is 'john patrick amata', the result is 18
puts(true && false || true) # prints the result of the boolean xpression
puts('heya heya heya'.slice(5)) #prints the 5th index of the string, in ruby indexes start at 0, so this shit prints 'h'

###################
# arrays
###################
alphabet = ['a','b','c','d'] #array alphabet with 4 elements
puts(alphabet[1]) # prints index 1 of the alphabet array, which is 'b'
alphabet.push('e','f') # add e and f to the end of the alphabet array
print(alphabet) # prints a b c d e f
# if we do puts(alphabet), it'll print every element in the alphabet array on each new line. thus i did print() instead of puts()
puts()
print(alphabet.drop(3), "\n") # prints d e f
#.drop() doesnt change the array, it just returns the elements starting from the index given by the argument in drop() to the end of the array. index 3 is 'd' so it prints d,e,f
# the "\n" means we're putting a newline after we print alphabet.drop(3)
puts "#{alphabet}" #alternative way of printing the array as a string

###################
# range
###################

# you use 2 dots for ranges, on the left is the min value and on the right is the max
numbers = 5..10 #numbers contains values between 5 to 10
print numbers.entries, "\n" # prints 5,6,7,8,9,10 and a newline
puts numbers.include?(3) # prints false as 3 is not in numbers
puts numbers.include?(7) #prints true as 7 is in the range

###################
# hash
###################

# collection of key-value pairs. often called as an associative array, hashmap, dictionary

# comma separated by key => value pairs inside curly braces
nato_alphabet = { 'a' => 'alpha', 'b' => 'bravo', 'c' => 'charlie'}
puts nato_alphabet
puts nato_alphabet['b'] # we print the value of the 'b' key
nato_alphabet['d'] = 'delta' # we add a new keyvalue pair to the nato_alphabet hash/map
puts nato_alphabet

###################
# procs
###################

# basically anonymous functions or lambda
#general syntax is to use
# -> arguments {body}

add = -> x, y { # takes 2 arguments
  puts x + y # adds and prints the argument given
}

# we use .call()
add.call(5, 5) # we pass 5 and 5 as arguments to the add proc
# or just brackets
add[5,5] # works like .call()

###################
# control flows
###################

# if-else
if 1 < 10
  puts 'less'
else
  puts 'more'
end

# while loop
while x < 10
  print x = x * 2, " " #prints 2 4 8 16
end
puts()

# another example of proc
say_number = -> number {
  case number
  when 1
    puts 'one'
  when 2
    puts 'two'
  when 3
    puts 'three'
  else
    'idk'
  end
}
say_number[1]
```

That's it. Time to crank some problems at kattis and project euler for me. As well as think about some things to build. See you on the next post.

As usual, to end this post, here's a pic of my dog from today's walk
