---
layout: default
title: April 2021
---

<center>
  <h2><big>2021-04 April Notes</big></h2>
  </center>

## 2021-04-05

- started writing this notes series 
- [The Google File System](https://static.googleusercontent.com/media/research.google.com/en//archive/gfs-sosp2003.pdf) uses a master slave architecture thus failure of master stops the service. Files Persistence is kept by logging on local and replicating to remote machines. Master operations are fast as metadata is stored in memory. Files are divided into fixed size chunks in chunk servers. Chunk size is 64MB. Each chunk is stored as a plain linux file, and for reliability, there are 3 replicas. GFS does a lot of replication, as well as of snapshots (of files and directory trees) Because of replication, it consumes more raw storage than xFS and swift. Because we store as plain linux files, caching file data is not done and GFS just uses the linux buffer memory. <u>idea: make a more detailed blog post about this.</u>
- Oracle CLoud free tiers has 2 Compute virtual machines with 1/8 OCPU and 1 GB memory each.
- tuples in C: arrays of pointers can be used, but they still require elements to have same types, so just use dynamic typing with void* and type. For static tuples, use structs or static cast of void*
- Rust's Cargo seems pretty better than NPM. Basically you specify a version you want to use, of which such is useable forever. No need to worry about your project getting nuked by some library update. Libraries on crates.io as well cant be removed <a href="https://www.theregister.com/2016/03/23/npm_left_pad_chaos/">unlike NPM</a>. I'm thinking of putting some time in the future to learn Rust
- [leetcode 0001 two sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/two-sum/): simple hashtable approach, easily brute forceable though
- [leetcode 0167 two sum ii](https://leetcode.com/problems/two-sum-ii-input-array-is-sorted/): used 2 pointer method. There's 2 common ways for 2 pointer method, the first is one fast-slow pointers. The 2nd one is we start the pointers at the beginning and end. For this one we used the 2nd way as we took advantage of the fact that the array is sorted.

## 2021-04-06

- comparing objects in java: <code>Comparator.comparing(Class::getField)</code>
- deploying on netlify, building: create a config file **netlify.toml** to specify how netlify will build and deploy the site as well as handle redirects. **./build** folder is commonly used for deploy folder
- golang managing dependencies: initialise the project with <code>go mod init NameOfProject</code>, build project with <code>go build</code> to download missing packages to **~/go/pkg/mod**. Use <code>go mod tidy</code> to clean up unused dependncies. 
